Experiment monitoring datasets (#602)
mozilla/data-docs: src/datasets/experiment_monitoring.md

# Experiment monitoring datasets

<!-- toc -->

Experiment monitoring datasets are designed to power dashboards, such as [Experiment Enrollment Grafana dashboard](https://grafana.telemetry.mozilla.org/d/XspgvdxZz/experiment-enrollment?orgId=1), for monitoring experiments in real time. Currently, datasets for monitoring the number or enrollments and number of searches performed by clients enrolled in experiments are available.

## Experiment enrollment data

`moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry_derived.experiment_enrollment_aggregates_live` provides enrollment, unenrollment, graduate, update and failure aggregates for experiments and branches over 5-minute intervals. This live view is also the basis of several derived tables:

| Dataset name                                                                             | Description                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_unenrollment_overall`                      | Overall number of clients that unenrolled from experiments          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `mozdata.telemetry.experiment_unenrollment_overall`                      | Overall number of clients that unenrolled from experiments          |
```

Can we consistently list all user-facing views in mozdata rather than shared-prod? I'd expect that we give only the live view path in shared-prod.

| `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_enrollment_other_events_overall`           | Number of events other than `enroll` and `unenroll` sent by clients |

> | enrolled in experiments                                                                  |

Reviewer 2: looks like this line broke funny

| `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_enrollment_cumulative_population_estimate` | Cumulative number of clients enrolled in experiments                |
| `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_enrollment_overall`                        | Overall number of clients enrolled in experiments                   |

> | `moz-fx-data-sharedo-prod.telemetry.experiment_enrollment_daily_active_population`       | Number of daily active clients enrolled in experiments              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_enrollment_daily_active_population`       | Number of daily active clients enrolled in experiments              |
```

## Experiment search metrics data

`moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry_derived.experiment_search_aggregates_live_v1` provides aggregated search metrics of clients enrolled in experiments, such as the number of searches performed, the number of searches with ads and the number of ad clicks. This live view is also the basis of several derived tables:

| Dataset name                                                                    | Description                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_cumulative_ad_clicks`             | Cumulative number of ad clicks by clients enrolled in experiments         |
| `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_cumulative_search_count`          | Cumulative number of searches by clients enrolled in experiments          |
| `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_cumulative_search_with_ads_count` | Cumulative number of searches with ads by clients enrolled in experiments |

## GCS data export

> As some dashboard solutions, such as the Experimenter console, might not have access to BigQuery, data from derived experiment monitoring tables is also exported as JSON to `monitoring/` in the `mozanalysis` bucket in `moz-fx-data-experiments`. JSON files are named like: `<experiment_slug>_<monitoring_dataset_name>.json`.

Reviewer: It may be worth giving a full example path to make this more concrete, like:

    gs://mozanalysis/monitoring/bug-1683348-rollout-tab-modal-print-ui-roll-out-release-84-85_experiment_unenrollment_overall.json

- [Jobs scheduled to run every 5 minutes](https://github.com/mozilla/telemetry-airflow/blob/ad3d678cb45c7ac67cb96a46efb6b4e731b856f0/dags/experiments_live.py#L18) that dump experiment enrollment aggregates and experiment search metrics aggregates that are very recent and have not been processed by the hourly job yet into `telemetry_derived.experiment_enrollment_aggregates_recents_v1` and `telemetry_derived.experiment_search_aggregates_recents_v1`.

The tables derived from the experiment monitoring live tables are also [scheduled to run every 5 minutes together with the data export script](https://github.com/mozilla/telemetry-airflow/blob/ad3d678cb45c7ac67cb96a46efb6b4e731b856f0/dags/experiments_live.py#L18).

## Code reference

[`moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry_derived.experiment_enrollment_aggregates_live`](https://github.com/mozilla/bigquery-etl/blob/master/sql/moz-fx-data-shared-prod/telemetry_derived/experiment_enrollment_aggregates_live/view.sql) and derived datasets are part of bigquery-etl:

> - [`moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.experiment_enrollment_other_events_overall`](https://github.com/mozilla/bigquery-etl/blob/master/sql/moz-fx-data-shared-prod/telemetry_derived/experiment_enrollment_other_events_overall_v1/query.sql)

Reviewer: moz-fx-data-shared-prod to mozdata in this section too.
